Impressionism Landscape Painting Dataset
Paper Title: "Between Shanshui and Impressionism: A Study on Cultural Perception of Landscape Composition Based on Attention Mechanisms in Paintings"
Abstract:
Chinese landscape paintings and Western Impressionist landscape paintings take natural scenery as their creative theme, showcasing their unique artistic value by presenting landscape spatial composition, aesthetic experience, and cultural transmission. The attention mechanism, originating from human visual research, can identify the focus areas the human eye concentrates on within images. It has now been widely applied in deep learning and has achieved remarkable results. This study combines science and art by examining Chinese landscape paintings and Western Impressionist landscape paintings, using the attention mechanism method to explore the differences and similarities in visual representation and aesthetic mood between the two. The results reveal that Eastern and Western paintings share a unique composition, color, spatial hierarchy, and visual focus characteristics. The attention mechanism has also been successfully applied to painting recognition and landscape design with its simple, high-speed, fully-automatic, and accurate features. Leveraging the advantages of Eastern and Western artistic styles and integrating them allows for unearthing potential traditional aesthetic principles in modern design and constructing a contemporary landscape composition model. In globalization, this landscape composition model, blending Chinese and Western artistic features, is expected to provide a more prosperous and diverse array of practical ideas for contemporary cultural landscape design, fulfilling the modern human desire and pursuing a better living environment.

Here, we provide the dataset which consists of 4,346 high-quality Impressionism Landscape Paintings. All paintings are sized 512x512, from the Wikiart:
For more details about dataset collection methodology, please see the paper.


